[DOCU-1731]Docs/2.6 beta changelog ee (#3263)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/enterprise/changelog.md

no_version: true
---

## 2.6.0.0 (beta1)
**Release date:** 2021/09/28

### Features

#### Enterprise

#### Core
This release includes the addition of a new schema entity validator: `mutually_exclusive`. Before, the
`only_one_of` validator required at least one of the fields included be configured. This new entity validator allows
only one or neither of the fields be configured.
[#7765](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7765)

#### Configuration
- Enable IPV6 on `dns_order` as unsupported experimental feature.
  [#7819](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7819).
- The template renderer can now use `os.getenv`.
  [#6872](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/6872).

#### Hybrid Mode
- Data plane is able to eliminate some unknown fields when Control Plane is using a more modern version.
  [#7827](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7827).

#### Admin API

> - Add support for HEAD requests.
>   [#7796](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7796)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Added support for the HTTP HEAD method for all Admin API endpoints
[#7796](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7796)
```

> - Improve support for OPTIONS requests.
>   [#7830](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7830)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added better support for OPTIONS requests. Previously, the Admin API replied the same on all OPTIONS requests, where as now OPTIONS request will only reply to routes that our Admin API has. Non-existing routes will have a 404 returned. Additionally, the Allow header was added to responses. Both Allow and Access-Control-Allow-Methods now contain only the methods that the specific API supports. [#7830](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7830)
```

- [Kafka Log](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-log) (`kafka-log`)
  The Kafka Log plugin now supports TLS, mTLS, and SASL auth.
- [Kafka Upstream](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream) (`kafka-upstream`)
  The Kafka Upstream plugin now supports TLS, mTLS, and SASL auth.
- [Rate Limiting Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced) (`rate-limiting-advanced`)
  - The Rate Limiting Advanced plugin now has a new identifier type: `path`, which allows rate limiting by matching request paths.
  - The plugin now has a `local` strategy in the schema. The local strategy automatically sets `config.sync_rate` to -1.
- [OPA](/hub/kong-inc/opa) (`opa`)
  The OPA plugin now has a request path parameter, which makes setting policies on a path easier for administrators.
- [Canary](/hub/kong-inc/canary) (`canary`)
  The Canary plugin now has the option to hash on the header (falls back on IP, and then random).
- [OpenID Connect](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect) (`openid-connect`)
  Upgrade to v2.0.x to maintain version compatibility with older data planes.
  - The OpenID Connect plugin can now handle JWT responses from a `userinfo` endpoint.
  - The plugin now supports JWE Introspection.

> - [AWS-Lambda](/hub/kong-inc/aws-lambda) (`aws-lambda`) 
>   The plugin will now try to detect the AWS region by using `AWS_REGION` and
>   `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` environment variables (when not specified with the plugin configuration).
>   [#7765](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7765)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AWS-Lambda**: The plugin will now try to detect the AWS region by using `AWS_REGION` and
  `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` environment variables (when not specified with the plugin configuration).
  This allows to specify a 'region' on a per Kong node basis, hence adding the ability to invoke the
  Lamda in the same region where Kong is located.
  [#7765](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7765)
```

> - [Datadog](/hub/kong-inc/datadog) (`datadog`)
>   The Datadog plugin now allows `host` and `port` config options be configured from `ENV` variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Datadog**: `host` and `port` config options can be configured from environment variables
  `KONG_DATADOG_AGENT_HOST` and `KONG_DATADOG_AGENT_PORT`. This allows to set different
  destinations on a per Kong node basis, which makes multi-DC setups easier and in Kubernetes allows to
  run the datadog agents as a daemon-set.
  [#7463](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7463)
```

  [#7463](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7463)
- [Prometheus](/hub/kong-inc/prometheus) (`prometheus`) 
  The new `data_plane_cluster_cert_expiry_timestamp` exposes DP cert expiry timestamp.

>   [#7800](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7800).

Reviewer: - [Prometheus](/hub/kong-inc/prometheus) (`prometheus`)
    A new metric `data_plane_cluster_cert_expiry_timestamp` is added to expose the Data Plane's cluster_cert expiry 
    timestamp for improved monitoring in Hybrid Mode. [#7800](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7800).

- [GRPC-Gateway](/hub/kong-inc/grpc-gateway) (grpc-gateway)

>   - The plugin can decode entities of type `.google.protobuf.Timestamp`
>     [#7538](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7538)
>   - Added support for structured URI arguments
>     [#7564](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7564)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fields of type `.google.protobuf.Timestamp` on the gRPC side are now
  transcoded to and from ISO8601 strings in the REST side.
  [#7538](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7538)
- URI arguments like `..?foo.bar=x&foo.baz=y` are interpreted as structured
  fields, equivalent to `{"foo": {"bar": "x", "baz": "y"}}`
  [#7564](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7564)
```

- [Request Termination](/hub/kong-inc/request-termination) (`request-termination`)

>   - New `trigger` config option, which makes the plugin activate for any requests with a header or query parameter
>     named like the trigger
>     [#6744](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/6744).
>   - The `request-echo` config option. If not set, the plugin activates on all requests.
>     If set, then the plugin only activates for any requests with a header or query parameter
>     named like the trigger
>     [#6744](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/6744).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New `trigger` config option, which makes the plugin only activate for any requests with a header or query parameter
  named like the trigger. This can be a great debugging aid, without impacting actual traffic being processed.
  [#6744](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/6744).
- The `request-echo` config option was added. If set, the plugin responds with a copy of the incoming request.
  This eases troubleshooting when Kong is behind one or more other proxies or LB's, especially when combined with
  the new 'trigger' option.
  [#6744](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/6744).
```

no_version: true
---

## 2.6.0.0
**Release date:** 2021/09/28

### Features

#### Enterprise

#### Core
This release includes the addition of a new schema entity validator: `mutually_exclusive`. Before, the
`only_one_of` validator required at least one of the fields included be configured. This new entity validator allows
only one or neither of the fields be configured.
[#7765](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7765)

#### Performance

> For this release we've focused on performance improvement.

Author: k, will remove

  [#7818](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7818)

#### Configuration
- Enable IPV6 on `dns_order` as unsupported experimental feature.
  [#7819](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7819).
- The template renderer can now use `os.getenv`.
  [#6872](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/6872).

#### Hybrid Mode
- Data plane is able to eliminate some unknown fields when Control Plane is using a more modern version.
  [#7827](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7827).

#### Admin API
- Add support for HEAD requests.
  [#7796](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7796)
- Improve support for OPTIONS requests.
  [#7830](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7830)

#### Plugins
- **New plugin:** [jq](/hub/kong-inc/jq) (`jq`)
  The jq plugin enables arbitrary jq transformations on JSON objects included in API requests or responses.
- [Kafka Log](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-log) (`kafka-log`)
  The Kafka Log plugin now supports TLS, mTLS, and SASL auth.
- [Kafka Upstream](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream) (`kafka-upstream`)
  The Kafka Upstream plugin now supports TLS, mTLS, and SASL auth.
- [Rate Limiting Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced) (`rate-limiting-advanced`)

>   - The Rate Limiting plugin now has a new identifier type: `path`, which allows rate limiting by matching request paths.

Reviewer 2: This should read "The Rate Limiting Advanced plugin ..."

Author: k, will fix

>   - The plugin now has a “local” strategy in the schema. The local strategy automatically sets `config.sync_rate` to -1.

Reviewer 2: Local should be in backticks as in `local`

Author: k, will add

- [OPA](/hub/kong-inc/opa) (`opa`)

>   The OPA plugin now has a request path, which makes setting policies on a path easier for administrators.

Author: k, will update

- [Canary](/hub/kong-inc/canary) (`canary`)

>   The Canary plugin now has the option to hash on the header (falls back on IP, and then random).

Reviewer 2: @mikefero it looks like this is coming from FTI-2792 and you were pinged by @Tieske for a review but it looks like pull request is still open.

Reviewer 3: @eskibars Thanks for the ping reminding me about this; there was a conversation thread about this back in August and I just dropped the ball to follow back up on this. I am going to merge that PR forward (review looks good) and update the version compatibility issues that is includes.

  [#7656](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7656)
- Bumped `lua-resty-openssl` from 0.7.3 to 0.7.4
  [#7657](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7657)
- Bumped `lua-resty-acme` from 0.6 to 0.7.1
  [#7658](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7658)
- Bumped `grpcurl` from 1.8.1 to 1.8.2
  [#7659](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7659)
- Bumped `luasec` from 1.0.1 to 1.0.2
  [#7750](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7750)
- Bumped `lua-resty-ipmatcher` to 0.6.1
  [#7703](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7703)

All Kong Gateway OSS plugins will be moved from individual repositories and centralized
into the main Kong Gateway (OSS) repository. We are making a gradual transition. On this
release:

- Moved AWS-Lambda inside the Kong repo
  [#7464](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7464).
- Moved ACME inside the Kong repo
  [#7464](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7464).
- Moved Prometheus inside the Kong repo
  [#7666](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7666).
- Moved Session inside the Kong repo
  [#7738](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7738).
- Moved GRPC-web inside the Kong repo
  [#7782](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7782).
- Moved Serverless functions inside the Kong repo

>   [#7792](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7792).

Reviewer 2: I realize this is relevant for the OSS build, but it isn't for the EE build and we should remove the whole section in this changelog

- Kong Gateway (Enterprise) no longer exports `consumer_reset_secrets`.

#### Core
- Balancer retries now correctly set the `:authority` pseudo-header on balancer retries.
  [#7725](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7725).
- Healthchecks are now stopped while the Balancer is being recreated.
  [#7549](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7549).
- Fixed an issue in which a malformed `Accept` header could cause unexpected HTTP 500.
  [#7757](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7757).
- Kong no longer removes `Proxy-Authentication` request header and `Proxy-Authenticate` response header.
  [#7724](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7724).
- Fixed an issue where Kong would not sort correctly Routes with both regex and prefix paths.
  [#7695](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7695)

#### Hybrid Mode
- Ensure data plane config thread is terminated gracefully, preventing a semi-deadlocked state.
  [#7568](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7568)

##### CLI
- `kong config parse` no longer crashes when there's a Go plugin server enabled.
  [#7589](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7589).

##### Configuration

> - Declarative Configuration parser now prints more correct errors when pointing unknown foreign references.

Reviewer 2: This says "pointing" but it should say "printing"

Author: k, will fix

  [#7756](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7756).
- YAML anchors in Declarative Configuration are properly processed.
  [#7748](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7748).

##### Admin API
- `GET /upstreams/:upstreams/targets/:target` no longer returns 404 when target weight is 0.
  [#7758](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7758).

##### PDK
- `kong.response.exit` now uses customized "Content-Length" header when found.
  [#7828](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/7828).

##### Plugins
- [Vault Auth](/hub/kong-inc/vault-auth) (`vault-auth)
  This plugin is now available for selection in the Kong Manager UI, previously it was hidden.
- [OpenID Connect](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect) (`openid-connect`)
  Upgrade to v2.0.x to maintain version compatibility with older data planes.
  - The OpenID Connect plugin can now handle JWT responses from a `userinfo` endpoint.

>   - The plugin now supports JWE Introspection.

Reviewer 2: This should be up in the Features section instead of the Fixes section

Author: k, will move
